# Crowdfunding_ETL
## Project-2

## Project proposal reflects in readme;

- proposal cites at least two sources of data
    1. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, with the intention being for educational purposes.
    2. Maybe just cite the csv files used? [crowdfunding.xlsx](Resources/contacts.xlsx) and [contacts.xlsx](Resources/contacts.xlsx).
- proposal includes the type of final production database to load the data into (relational or nonrelational).
    * unfinished
- gives relevant and succinct description of findings (2-3 sentences)
    * nothing found on my end.. maybe on Phils?

## Project report reflects in readme;

- Extract: indicates the original data sources and how the data were formatted at a professional level
    1. original data sources were crowdfunding.xlsx and contacts.xlsx.
    2. How were they formatted..? to dataframes?
- Transform: explains what data clearing or transformation was required at a professional level
    1. Transforming category and subcategory:
        - The category & sub-category columns were spit into two different category and subcategory columns.
        - After numbering each category and subcategory a list comprehension was used to add "cat" and "subcat" to create unique identifiers for each row.
        - These were then made into a dataframe which were then exported into csv files.
        - (category and subcategory df image)

    2. Transforming the Campaign DataFrame:
        - A copy of the original crowdfunding.xlsx DataFrame was made.
        - The necessary columns were then renamed
        - Column data types were changed to float as well as datetime
        - This DataFrame was then merged with the category and subcategory DataFrames.
        - Unwanted columns were dropped and then exported into csv files
        - (campaign df image)
    
    3. Transforming the Contacts DataFrame:
        - / Phil adds

- Load: explain the final database, tables/collections, and why the topic was chosen at a professional level
    * To create the final database we sketched an ERD using QuickDBD. We then created a [table schema](crowdfunding_db_schema.sql) for each CSV file to load into our crowdfunding_db database in Postgres. 
    - (image of ERD)
    * Tables:
        - category
        - subcategory
        - contacts
        - campaign


## Github;

- successfully uploaded to github; demonstrating professional quality of presentation
- github repo is free of unnecessary files and folders and has an appropriate .gitignore in use
- readme is customized to a professional level